All
right, I want to do something crazy
here. Specifically, I want to talk about
the future of hacking. And what do I
mean by that? What do I mean by hacking?
I mean all hacking, attack defense, bug
bounty, personal automation stacks,
enterprise automation stacks, attacker
automation stacks, enterprise security,
everything, everything hacking related,
I think, is going to come down to what
I'm about to talk about. And I am aware
of how big of a claim that is. The
reason I'm able to make this prediction
is I'm not stupid enough to claim to
know how it's going to happen or exactly
when or with what companies or like what
technologies exactly it's going to
manifest as. That would be ridiculous
because the stuff is basically
unpredictable. What I'm going to show
you is a direction. And I think once you
see it, you will be unable to unsee it.
And by the way, this video is going to
be around 30 minutes, but the whole
first 25 minutes is leading up to the
last five. The last five is the good
stuff. All right. So, quick intro for
people who don't know me. I've been in
security since like 1999 and I went
heavy into AI in late 2022. Still doing
tons of security stuff just with this AI
wrapper around it and you're going to
see why here in a second. And uh I would
say most of my technical background I
mean I've done lots of different stuff
but it kind of boils down to a container
of security assessment. That's like the
main
outline. So first going to show you how
I kind of walked into this idea. So when
I start to do a security assessment,
this goes back, you know, 15, 20 years,
uh, doing security assessments, I like
to start at the very top. When I talk to
a company, I like to interview the CEO,
uh, if if I'm able to, if it's a, you
know, medium-sized company or below. And
I talk to COO, I talk to the CEO, I talk
to the head of legal, I talk to like as
many people at the top, and I'm sort of
asking them the same questions. Then I
move down through the structure. I talk
to all the VPs and senior VPs and uh,
CISO and the rest of the seauite and
everybody. And then I start moving
through all the management and I'm
asking kind of similar questions, but
I'm also asking different questions
because now I'm playing off the answers
I got before. And I just move through
the whole structure all the way down to
the people who who do the actual work.
And then as I keep gathering more and
more information, I start filling in
these elaborate diagrams that describe
to me exactly how this company works.
Like here's how the information flows.
Here's where the data is stored. Oh, we
got vendors over here. They're able to
touch this data or whatever. And
ultimately, I'm trying to figure out
like what they're protecting, how
they're doing it, what day-to-day
business looks like. After a couple of
weeks of this, I then start doing my
technical assessment to find
vulnerabilities. So, I'm also reviewing
their previous technical assessments,
but I'm really doing my own as well to
go and probe in these various different
areas and point my uh observations at
things that I've seen in the interviews.
But the underlying theme here is I'm
taking all the context not just of the
vulnerabilities and the technical
aspects like of the IT stack, but of the
business itself, right? All of that I'm
gathering into one place. And that's
kind of how I view and how I start
security assessments. A lot of teams are
still managing GRC with spreadsheets,
screenshots, and manual processes. But
with everything evolving, compliance
frameworks, third party risk, customer
expectations, this is no longer good
enough. And the problem isn't just that
it's timeconuming can actually hold you
back. Slow audits, mis risks, and give
you less time to focus on what actually
matters, which is improving your
security. Vantage trust management
platform is designed to help with that.
It automates the core parts of your GRC
program. things like compliance,
readiness, vendor risk, and internal
controls, so you're not buried in manual
work. According to IDC, teams using Vant
are 129% more productive in their GRC
work. That means faster prep, fewer
surprises, and more time for real
security work. It's not about making
compliance easy for the sake of it. It's
about getting the friction out of the
way so you can move faster, do better
work, and build trust more efficiently.
And if you're thinking about how to
approach AI risk, Vant put together a
free AI security assessment. It's a
structured way to evaluate risk across
AI use, development, and governance. You
can get the assessment at
ul.live/vant. That's
ul.live/vanta. And thanks to Vanta for
sponsoring this
video. So, in a completely separate
thread of consumer tech, in 2013, I
started getting a picture of where I
thought all this AI tech was going, like
on the consumer side, which at the time
I called IoT. And um I was actually
talking about this with my friend uh
Jason Hadex in like 2013 which I was
reminded of this because I just read the
forward and I was thanking him for
encouraging me to write this book in
2013. But um these ideas are pretty
decent. The book is actually crap. So
you don't need to read that. In fact, I
have it published online um as a blog
post. It's very short. You should go
read it there. It's actually not half
bad. Plus, you could use AI to help you
read it. Plus, it's got way better
typography. So uh I would say skip the
book and just go read the blog. But uh
the basic ideas are quite good even
though the book is not so great. Um so
the basic idea is you have digital
assistants that know everything about
you and they advocate for you and then
everything gets an API including people
and objects and businesses and
everything. This is like the second
piece of this and it's really really
important. And your digital assistant,
your DA basically uses all those
services to interact with those APIs on
your behalf. Then your DA will use
augmented reality to show you context
for wherever and whatever you're doing,
right? Right? So, you're wearing glasses
or lenses or whatever, nurling,
whatever. Does doesn't matter. It'll
start with glasses obviously. And
basically, your DA knows everything
about you. It knows your entire
personality. It knows your entire
history or whatever. So, it knows when
you're scared. It knows when you're
skeptical. It knows when you're hungry.
It knows, you know, when you're curious.
And it's using these millions of
services that are available with APIs to
get data back for you and change the
screen. Okay? Sometimes it's a security
screen, sometimes it's like a social
screen cuz you're trying to find, you
know, your life partner or whatever. So,
it's constantly changing what you're
looking at to help you. Maybe it's
popping up little notes or little
reminders or whatever, right? A security
overlay if you're in danger or
something. So, that's the third piece,
which is augmented reality displaying
the information from all these APIs from
your from your DA who is like the one
handling all of this in advocating for
you. And finally, the last idea is that
when you have like an entire family or
an entire city or an entire country with
all these dammons, all these APIs
available, that produces tons of context
that a top level AI could look at and
say, "Okay, how can I manage this city
better? How can I manage its resources?
How can I turn on these lights and turn
these off and reflow this traffic and
you know, how can I optimize? How can I
help this city achieve its goals based
on all the context that I know about it
from all this context, from all these
APIs and dams?"
So that was fun. That that was a cool
book. That was uh some cool ideas. Uh
then in 2018, I got a job at Apple doing
information security stuff. But the team
I came in on uh was with Joel Parish and
we actually built um well he was already
doing machine learning, right? He's part
of the machine learning team within
security. So um I wanted to study up and
just get really good at this
stuff. Excuse me. And uh my math was
really bad. So I had to refresh my
horrible math and I went and did Andrew
Ang's entire machine learning course.
And um over the course of my time there,
I got exposed to tons of ML stuff and
practical uses of ML like before the
current AI stuff and that was really
helpful. Ended up building a product
there which is still used today. So I'm
happy about that. In early 21, I left
Apple to go build the appsac management
teams at Robin Hood with Caleb Simma and
there I did a black hat talk about
building
vulnerability management programs based
on company context and specifically
around asset management and that turned
out to be another brick in this path
that I'm laying out here. After doing
that, I decided it was time for me to go
build things on my own and do like my
own consulting. So, I went independent
with unsupervised learning in like
August of 22. And turns out that was
just a few months before ChatGBT came
out. And obviously, I went absolutely
apron. I called Jason. I called Clint. I
called Caleb. I called my mom. I called
my dog. I don't have a dog, but yeah, I
called everyone. And the first place
that my head went with all this was like
security assessment and building and
managing security programs. So, I
started doing that immediately.
Basically, I took everything I was doing
previously with all this context, right,
that I've been doing like, you know, a
decade and a half or whatever, and I'm
like, okay, how can I use AI to, you
know, make this even better and uh, you
know, you know, put the context first.
So, in March of 23, I wrote this post
called SPQA, which basically says
everything is about state, policy,
questions, and actions. Basically, you
have current context for a company or a
program or whatever. Then you have the
policy, which is what you're trying to
accomplish. Then you have the questions
you're constantly wanting to ask um, and
have answers to. And then you have
actions or you know that we could take
or that AI could take against that
context. So I feel like I'm starting to
zero in on this concept and this got
decent traction but I wanted to like
have a demo or something for it. So I
did another black hat talk I think maybe
the following year or maybe yeah must
have been the following year uh to put
together a demo for this. So I put
together a fake company called Alma and
I put in tons of context for this thing.
I basically made a copy of one of my
security assessments the way that I do
it. Um but I did it for a fake company
with a whole bunch of fake data. So I've
got company mission. And I've got their
goals, how they're different from their
competitors, what they do in business. I
got their risk register. I've got their
full tech stack. I've got their security
team and their members, like the skill
sets of the team members, um the list of
applications, the full IT stack, every
app that they use. Um all their
documentation, I've got some fake like
Slack conversations in there, um what
repositories they use, what dev teams
they belong to, how they push code, all
all that stuff. It's all in there. So
then I can ask questions the same way
that I do in security assessments. And
using this you can actually manage the
entire security program using this
context that you have because you could
do planning from here. You could do
threat modeling. You could do your
communications. You can produce your
reports. Like I'm doing this for a
customer. I could produce a report like
a quarterly update security report in 30
seconds which used to take them months
and like hundreds upon hundreds of hours
of some of their best people actually
trying to make this report just to be
able to prove to the rest of the
organization they're actually effective.
So turn that to a couple minutes, right?
The other cool thing is you can respond
to security questionnaires because if
you have a static database of answers,
you they always ask the question
differently and it doesn't perfectly
match one that you have, right? But if
you have this kind of system with
context, it can answer it perfectly
every time. So this is an example of
like a CISO making a statement about no
more connections are allowed to
particular sensitive resource and we're
asking the question to the AI system.
This is a real AI system, right? And
this is back at 23 that I did this. So
it's a real AI system. I'm asking the
question, should Julie be allowed to
connect to this thing? and it says no,
she shouldn't because the CISO just said
nobody should be allowed to connect to
this thing anymore. Right? So you can do
really cool stuff when you have context.
So throughout 23 and 24 and into this
year, I've been building more and more
stuff around this theme of context and
AI. So later in 23, I built this thing
called threshold. So it takes a whole
bunch of sources and um I have context
of what I enjoy, right? The kind of
content that I think is high quality,
lots of good ideas, lots of density in
the ideas, lots of novelty in the ideas.
So I give it tons of context and that
becomes the filter for the quality
level. And then I could slide this bar
to say I only want to see things from
these 3,000 different sources that
exceed at least this quality level.
Right? So that's threshold. I'm
currently about to launch another
enterprise product called Same Page.
It's basically a whole bunch of
management like this uh around different
stuff, security management uh for
programs especially. Uh another thing
I've had for like 9 years that didn't
have any AI whatsoever until you know a
couple years ago was uh my attack
surface monitoring service called
Helios. And I'm in the middle of
rewriting this entire thing to be uh
like what we're about to talk about. And
once again, this is all about using the
context. That's a central part of the
rewrite. And the last one I'll mention
is like a daily brief uh for
intelligence. So I basically go find all
my OSEN people, all my national security
people that I know have high signal, you
know, high alpha and what they say and I
basically bring that in and say, "Okay,
here's everything they said yesterday.
Turn that into a picture of like where
this might be going. Like where are they
agreeing in a way that looks like there
might be signal there?" And then I make
myself a daily report. So, uh, just
another example. So, these are all kind
of like separate ideas hovering loosely
around the concept of context and AI.
And I feel like I was doing pretty well
here. I felt like I kind of had a grasp
of this, but a couple of weeks ago, I'm
like, wait a minute. I think I actually
have a much better way to think about
this and to describe it. And that is
something I'm calling unified entity
context. And that won't be the real name
that gets used because Gartner will come
up with their own name. And of course,
that'll become the official thing. But
if we look at cyber security in general,
we look at some use cases. there are
some interesting patterns and
similarities. So for SOCK, you got to
look at all the different types of data,
right? And and try to like come up with
like what actually happened, like is
this thing bad? Is it okay? Is it
benign? Whatever. For IR, it's a lot of
the same stuff. You got a whole bunch of
different data. You're trying to figure
out like uh is it bad? Uh did it
actually happen? What's the blast
radius? Pentesting, you're also
collecting tons of information and
you're trying to figure out like what
path do I go down? How do I show impact?
Same with red team. It's just like more
extreme. You're trying to, you know,
show more of a story and like the actual
impact to the business. With vulner
management, you actually need to
understand the organization and like how
they push code and how they do
remediation. Uh otherwise, you can't
actually help them fix things. For
program management, you need project
management, budgeting, strategy, time
management. Uh GRC, you've got like what
do we have to be compliant with in which
jurisdictions and why and what are our
current gaps, right? And how those mixed
together. So, the common issue with most
of these is the actual ability to see
multiple parts of the organization at
the same time and then to connect those
pieces, right? This is why security
analysts and red team people and
especially like principal people, people
who have been doing this 5, 10, 15 years
are so valuable. It's not actually a
single task that is difficult. The
problem is getting all the information
together to paint a picture to actually
do the
task. So, I'm going to take
vulnerability management as an example
since I've lived in this hellscape for
so long. What is actually so hard about
vulnerability management? Is it finding
vulnerabilities? Is it like making a
pretty enough dashboard to show
vulnerabilities? No, it's actually
fixing vulnerabilities. And the reason
it's hard to fix them is because you
have to know what application it's part
of. You have to find the right
engineering team. What repo uh does that
code go into? What's the DevOps workflow
for that? Like the the team changed,
right? Uh there was there was a um a
riff and now that team doesn't even
exist and it got combined with this
other one. Where did that one developer
go who's responsible for that one app?
Oh, it's different this week than it was
last week. This stuff is not easy to do
cuz it's constant change inside this
company. So, here's the question. How
much of our inability to do a good job
at vulnerability management or security
in general over the last 15 years is
actually a security problem and how much
of it is actually an organizational
knowledge problem. And think about that
for all of
security. Even crazier, think about it
for all of it, right? Or all of software
and services, right? HR collects, you
know, HR data and asks HR questions and
they put it into an HR interface, right?
Project management collects project
management information into a project
management database. They ask project
management questions and they put it
into a UI designed for project
management. Do we really think these
things are going to need their own
separate databases going forward? Their
own separate APIs, their own separate uh
questions. Maybe they need their own
questions. Do they need their own
interfaces? I don't think so. I think
that all kind of goes away and we end up
with this thing called unified entity
context or building a world model for
the thing that you care about. So if
you're an individual, your history, your
belief system, your aspirations, your
favorite books, and music, your past,
your traumas, your salary, blood
pressure, friendships, job, career,
family goals, financial goals, your
upbringing, your medical history, how
strong you are, how much you can curl,
like, you know, your blood sugar levels,
right? And then you can ask questions
just like with the security program. You
could be like, why is my relationship
not working? What can I do to improve my
health? And if you're a company, it's
back to the stuff we talked about with
Alma. It's all of its goals. It's all of
its competitors. It's all of its Slack
communications. It's all the transcripts
from all of its calls. It's all of its
Google Docs and Confluence and all of
that. It's their desired ARR for the
company, all the product marketing that
you're putting out for all of your
products and all the product marketing
your competitors are putting out for all
their products. This becomes the
baseline for everything. Once you have
that, then you do this. Then you take
the smartest, biggest context AI that
you have, and this will be massive in
the future, right? It's getting bigger
all the time. And you look down at this
entire context and it could hold it all
in its mind all at once.
So this is completely insane. Basically,
I think most people have this AI thing
exactly backwards. Instead of cyber
security or finance or whatever being at
the center with context and AI being
things that you kind of like sprinkle on
to do that thing better, it's actually
the opposite. The context of the entity
is everything. The world model that you
have for this thing is everything.
Software verticals kind of go away. They
just become use cases on top of this
architecture. Cool. But we were talking
about hacking, right? How do we bring
this back to hacking? So basically the
future of
hacking because all of this relates to
context is basically how you can keep an
exhaustive, accurate, and up-to-date
world model of the thing that you were
attacking. And this is true whether
you're actually attacking or whether
you're defending. So that it turns into
a giant competition between attackers
and defenders and attackers versus
attackers and defenders versus
defenders, between who has the most
accurate and up-to-date world model for
their
organization. So everyone listening to
this, every attacker, every bounty
player, we are all going to have a stack
like this. I've been building this for
years already. So like, and I know some
people on this call are probably along
the path as well. So it's not a bunch of
agents with random tools. It's an
interoperable system where the output of
one is the input to the next one. Okay,
this is a big thing that people aren't
understanding about that whole agent
thing. You don't just say blah and give
it like a prompt and then say, "Oh,
agents figure it out because then you're
offloading all the work to the model to
actually do the hard work of building
the system itself." The better way to do
this, and if you talk to the people at
AI uh XC, the people who are actually
building these systems to actually go
and, you know, find vulnerabilities,
exploit them, fix them, or whatever,
they need a system like this. These are
the systems I've been building for
years.
They are modular. Each little piece does
one thing well. It's a Unix concept,
right? Each little piece does one thing
well, right? So, I've got a million of
these things. Finding domains, finding
websites, crawling the websites, running
automated scans. And each one of these
could be like a super basic version.
It's like curl. Okay? You got curl on
one side and you've got fully automated
puppeteer browser automation going
through bright data on the other side,
right? Okay, so you have all these
quality you know spectrums in between
for each of these modules but the whole
system works together based on a set of
goals right so running automated crawls
parsing all endpoints pulling out every
single API endpoint from every piece of
JavaScript writing exploits PC's
actually doing the attacking um writing
up reports all of these are separate
modules so let's say the target you know
has like five million web applications
like a few hundred pages per site and
you know uh there's a whole bunch of
agents think of this you're going to
have like thousands of agents. You'll
start with dozens, right? Dozens, then
hundreds, then thousands, then whatever.
So, we're also learning from new
marketing campaigns on X or LinkedIn.
Keep in mind, multiple of these these
modules are actually watching the
company. They're watching everything the
company does. every piece of marketing,
every piece of information that's put
out about this company gets parsed and
brought back into the context because
the system as a whole and the AI that's
sitting on top of it watching the goals
is using that new information to tweak
how we're going to do this attack.
Right? So, they have a new product
launch which is a new website and a
mobile app. Cool. Go download that.
Right? Right now, we can't do too much
with that because that's a little bit
difficult. In a year or so, we're going
to be able to go download that full uh
mobile app, run the mobile app in a full
virtual environment, run a whole bunch
of mobile tools, find out like which
APIs aren't secured, where they're not
using TLS, um all sorts of issues that
you have with mobile security, and
that'll just be one little tiny module,
which brings that context back into the
overall engine, which enhances all the
other components inside of that engine,
right? Send that over to automate a burp
intruder tool, right? Then all of Burp's
output, and that's a lot of output. It
overwhelms anything, including uh
Gemini, by the way. So, this is still a
place where, you know, um the AI has to
grow because
um something like Burp output from
crawling a website is still massive.
Anyway, you've got all that content
coming out. All that content can then be
reparsed to find the JavaScript in there
to find where they're doing all their
controls on the client side. Again, you
only have to tell it a couple core
things inside of the system. Here are
the types of things I'm looking for. Any
output that you get, go and look for the
following things. Oh, cool. We got new
output from Burp. We found new
JavaScript files. let's go parse the
hell out of them and find the files and
API endpoints, bring that back into the
system,
right? And meanwhile, all this stuff is
being refed into the appropriate
modules. So, let's say we find some good
stuff uh send off to the exploit agents
and try to do uh something according to
the roles uh and goals we've laid out,
right? Uh so, if we're an attacker,
we're trying to extract data. Maybe
we're going to sell that access to a
broker. for a bounty person. We're going
to create a PC and a short video to go
with the automated report and we're
going to submit it to hacker one or bug
crow or whatever, right? And that that
just becomes another module that your
thing is good at, right? This automated
workflow. That's not the cool part. The
cool part is this thing never sleeps.
Dozens or hundreds or thousands of
agents in this infrastructure working at
all times finding new domains, finding a
new announcement which includes a new
domain which you then go find the
subdomains which you then go find all
the infrastructure. You find the web
apps that are listening. You go then go
crawl those. Add infinite item through
this entire system. Right? Open admin
portals. You're taking all the
screenshots. You're finding the
screenshots. Oh, that's an admin portal.
That thing's wide open. Oh, look default
credentials. Right? Looking for open
ports. Seeing if there's any new stuff
out there. Right? Now, this sounds
complex because there's lots of
different tools and everything to keep
in mind, but this system only needs to
be built once and then you're just
adding modules and upgrading the
modules. And this is a big part of what
the AI helps you do. It helps you just
make each one of these little things
better and
smarter. Again, everyone is going to
have a stack like this. Individual
bounty hunters, individual people just
doing security research or hacking on
their own, and definitely the attacker
organizations. And guess who else needs
to have it? The defenders. If you are a
defender and you are not running this
against yourself, you are going to lose.
You are going to lose because because
there are going to be so many people
running a stack like this against you.
You you are just going to lose. Now at
first including everything I built for
myself, right? This was just going to be
some basic information, right? Because
we can't do the full version of this
yet, right? This is a year, two, three,
four years. You know, this gets better
as the AI tech stack gets better. But
the system itself is core. So, um, this
is like an internal like this is the AI
remake I'm currently doing of my Helios
system and, you know, it's not going to
have fully automated burp yet. It's not
going to have a bunch of different
modules, but like I said, this gets
better as the tech gets better. The
other thing is running, you know,
hundreds of agents constantly. That's
not cheap, right? So, these prices have
to come down, the context windows have
to go up. It's an upgrade process. So,
some vignettes to just think about this.
So, imagine that you're out at dinner
and you get a notification that some
employee at some company, right? Um,
they just talked about how, oh, I've got
this thing at work and blah blah blah,
this thing is uh they're drunk or
whatever. They're talking online and
some, you know, Reddit subreddit or
whatever. And they're like, yeah, this
new domain we put up and it doesn't have
2FA and I can't believe they use default
credentials. That's why I want to quit.
Um, I'm going to start my own business
or whatever. And so, um, you're sitting
there eating dinner with a friend and
you get a Discord message from your AI
bot and it's like, "Hey, some, uh, some
dumbass just, uh, got drunk and posted
that, um, there's a brand new, uh,
domain open and, uh, potentially there's
a vulnerability here. Do you want me to
go mess with it?" And you're like,
"Yeah, yeah, go mess with it." So, it
comes back and it tells you basically,
yeah, the vault they mentioned actually
does exist. Um, I do you want me to
exploit it? Yes, cool. All right. So, we
sent it in, we got the money, or if
you're a bad guy, you know, you're uh,
stealing data or whatever. And keep in
mind, this could be from like a forum
post. Um, it could be an announcement on
Techrunch that they just bought a
company, so it's a merger and
acquisition. Um, anything on the
internet relative to your target, the
agents are constantly watching. New
announcements, you know, new mergers,
disgruntled employees, uh, a new job
wreck for a new technology that you
didn't know, so you add it to the tech
stack for that company. Uh, new website
paths are constantly being discovered,
right? Cuz they can make a slight change
to the site, but they added a new API.
Have we tested that API before? No, it
was actually a different team that built
that API. They didn't use all the
security that the other team used. Boom.
That that's how we got in. That's how we
pulled the data or whatever. New S3
buckets, not properly secured, all this
stuff. So, the entire game here, and
this is really big point, is maintaining
as accurate as possible world models for
these things you're attacking. It
doesn't matter if you're a company, it
doesn't matter if you were hired to
defend the company, it doesn't matter if
you have your own startup, doesn't
matter if you're a bounty player. It's
all the same You have to keep the
most updated version of this thing in
your mind as possible. And here's
something else that's crazy about this.
One of the modules here is the actual
list of attacks that you run when you
attack. Okay, so check this out. You
have like it's your bag of tricks. Your
bag of tricks is what gets thrown at
every web app, at every mobile app,
right? Um for every social engineering
campaign, for every fish, you have like
your favorite little stuff that you do.
Well, one of the AI modules that you
have inside of your overall system is
the one that parses new research. So, I
keep forgetting the guy's name, but
every black hat who releases like a new
attack on HTTP itself. Um, he's the guy
that works with uh DAFF over at um uh
you know, Burp um Porswiger, but anyway,
uh I want to say Alino Wax, but that's
not quite right. Anyway, you all know
the guy. So, every time he releases
something, every time he tweets, I have
another module which go and reads that,
pulls it down and says, "Oh, that's
actually interesting." Guess what?
Upgrade. It's like the board from Star
Trek. You hit it once, it falls over.
You hit it the second time, it's
blocked. That technique. Okay. Jason
puts out a new video. He's like, "Oh,
I've got this new uh this new attack
that I always do against my things. It
finds way more domains. I got this new
attack. It uh it goes through filters
for uh prompt injection, right? Um maybe
uh Joseph is talking about that. It goes
straight through prompt injection. Cool.
Add that to the methodology. The whole
system has now been upgraded. You can
have an entire dedicated thing. It does
nothing but watch tlddrc, right? It
watches Clint's entire thing. It finds
every single thing that it mentions. It
go reads it goes and reads every um you
know, every presentation, every GitHub
repo and it pulls out the research and
uses that to upgrade the methodology and
that again that's also continuous. So
the system's always being upgraded. So
then the question is like what are you
going to actually point this at? So I'm
already monitoring like all the new B
bounty programs as they go live, right?
I've not started testing them yet
because I'm still bu building out um the
rest of this new stack based on context.
But my goal is to set this thing free on
uh on actual programs soon. Um but but
the point of mentioning this is that you
can always be adding new targets, right?
Attackers are going to have their own
criteria for picking targets, right?
Maybe they have a lot of money. Maybe
they have it's a combination of a lot of
money and a bad security team. Maybe
it's a combination of they have a lot of
money, but I just saw on LinkedIn that
half their security team got fired. Oh,
let's add that one to unified context
and let's start attacking that one.
Point is, this is also continuous to
find targets. Um, and in my case, just
parsing a brand new uh bug bounty
programs that are coming live. So, the
entire game here is maintaining these
accurate real-time world models for
entities. Like I said, it doesn't matter
who you are. Um, what's really hilarious
about this is AI is not the main feature
here. AI is not the point. AI is just
the tech that enables this to happen
because of the agents and because of the
fact that um models can hold way more
information in their brains at one time
than we can. That's the only thing we're
really getting from the AI is the models
are pretty smart, right? And the smarter
they get, the better this gets. But it's
not the kind of the point. The point is
the world model capture of this thing.
It it Okay, so ju just imagine this.
Imagine it's 20 years in the future.
Imagine we're not dead yet or you know
like everything has gone well. The
planet is still here. uh 20 years in the
future, imagine an ASI, and this is a
little sci-fi, but it's not too far off,
honestly. Imagine China holding the
United States context of every open
port, every vulnerable API path, every
um opportunity for like file inclusion,
every single attack
possible, every every AI agent that's
vulnerable to a particular type of
prompt injection. It just pulls in the
entire context of the United States
current state of vulnerability and holds
it in its mind in one piece. And then
they ask the question, who do I go after
first? What is the next best action to
harm the United States the most, right?
Or to harm Russia the most or to harm
whatever target that they are pointing
at. The point of this is that
is millions of IPs, hundreds of millions
of IPs, is it billions of IPs. The point
is think about how much context you need
for that, right? Doing this for a
company itself is actually hard enough,
right? To understand its entire history
and every state change of all its IT and
tech. We're talking about terabytes or
pabytes to hold a state in its mind at
once. And it's got to like keep that in
context. Keep in mind, so you think
we've actually gone far with AI, we
haven't gone near close to what we
actually need. And the AI is not the
point. The point is having the size of
the state that you can hold in your mind
at once, right? So all this to say that
the AI is not that important. It's kind
of a supporting actor because size of
context and yeah okay the models are
smart so that emulates you know some
human components of this but what
actually matters is knowing that you
have to keep the state and understand
this world model of the thing and that
you build a system a replicable system
that produces outputs based on how the
different modules in the system
interact. The system is more important
than the AI, right? And the concept of
context itself is more important than
AI. The AI is just the supporting
tech. So what we end up with here is a
world where every single stone, every
single port, every single URL, every
single API endpoint, every single agent
is constantly being overturned, checked,
and double checked. As an attacker, you
are competing with hundreds of thousands
of other attackers. As a bounty player,
you're competing with hundreds of
thousands of other bounty players. and
the attackers, you're racing to go do
that thing. And as a defender, you're
defending against all of them plus all
the other defenders because, you know,
you want to be um the one that gets away
from the bear while the other uh
defender gets eaten. So, natural
question is, okay, what does all this
mean? Uh if this is correct, if you're a
defender and you're trying to determine
what AI to build for your company, you
need to start building your own world
model of your company. You need UBC
context for your company. Your attackers
are going to have it and you better have
a better version. And if you're a bounty
player, you need to rebuild your
automation stack, putting the world
model building and UEC at the center of
it. And if you don't have an automation
stack, go look for a new hobby cuz
you're not long for this world. They're
about to be millions of people/ agents
going after the same bugs with
constantly evolving and improving uh
systems and stacks and AI intelligence
helping it, right? So this is a
competition between their system versus
your system. Not one of them against
you. It's their system against yours.
Their context against yours, their world
model against yours. And finally, if
you're just trying to figure out like
where things are going with all this AI
stuff, just remember one core idea. The
game is not adding AI to stuff we care
about. The game is having real-time
world models of what we care about,
which we can then take action on using
AI. Thanks for your time.